>> Steve Kinney: So
let's go ahead and let's try it out.
So I got another example in here.
I'll do npm start again.
And this time,
we're gonna go into the sea-surf-bank.
And we'll open that one up.
>> Steve Kinney: I just do my,
let's put my Chrome tools back.
And let's go to localhost:6000.
All right, so yeah, obviously,
that login form looks shockingly similar.
It's almost like the same person
built all these little example apps.
Okay, so this one, for reasons that I
hate myself for now in 2020 hindsight.
Nope, that's the cookie-jar one.
Let's see what our users are.
I wrote this one while my son
was watching Adventure Time.
So they are Adventure Time themed logins,
which I regret in 2020 hindsight,
when I could have just did user,
password for all of these.
But here we are.
All right, so we'll be finnthehuman.
And we'll go in, and
this password is adventure.
>> Steve Kinney: Great, as you can see,
finnthehuman has an account
balance of $1,000, awesome.
And you could choose to transfer.
This is basically a very
naive version of the INJ
example that we saw earlier, right?
And they can choose to send $10
to princessbubblegum, right?
Transfer successful, they now have
an account balance of 990, right?
Great, that's neat.
That's intended code, right?
They're logged in, they're doing
their thing, they're coding, and
then they realize that somebody
sent them a link to a dank meme.
And when I'm working, I enjoy
the occasional meme being sent to me.
And they will go, it would theoretically
be on a different domain, but
it doesn't actually have to be.
And so it's to /evil.
Now, if I look at evil, I'm like, okay,
whatever, like it's actually malicious,
it's the template.
It's got a meme, it's got an image,
it's got a form in there.
I don't see that.
And a lot of times, part of the trick
is to try to intercept the request so
that you don't see it.
This one is going to
submit the form fully.
And so I clicked on it,
I don't see the meme at all, right?
But I see accepted, that's weird.
And I go back,
my account balance is 740, right?
What happened?
And if we look, this could be
hosted on a totally different site.
There's a form id take-the-money-and-run,
and it's submitting a form, transferring
the money, and then submitting
the POST request from my browser.
And the browser is following
the browser security model, right?
It's like, hey, that's a POST request.
All right, let me go make it.
I'll send the cookie cuz even I'll send
the cookie that goes along with that
domain.
Sounds good, right?
And the request goes off and
the thing happens, right?
Now, this is where some of that SameSite
cookie stuff can theoretically help us,
as well as a few other techniques.
And if the answer is which one should I
use, you are asking the wrong question.
Cuz the answer to which strategy
you use to protect your customers,
the answer is all of them.
In case you have a booboo or
someone finds next one nobody knew about,
or something along those lines.
One of the reasons why companies
have bug bounties is the ones that
are obvious don't get a lot of money.
The ones that are $10,000 are really like,
right?
And you don't have enough money for
bug bounties currently.
Someone just took 250 from your account.
So one way that we can solve this is
going back to looking at the cookies.
And we kinda talked about
this a little bit before, but
let's do it a little bit more now.
We've got SameSite=None,
which is just always send the cookie,
right?
So this was the case, well,
actually, see the time one second,
in browsers up until very recently,
this was the default, right?
And as you can see, it allows attacks
like that to happen, which isn't great.
Now, you have to opt in to SameSite=None.
You're like,
who would opt in to SameSite=None?
Ad trackers.
[LAUGH] If you're wondering, who wants
to set a session and have it follow you
around, sending a request from all
over the Internet, it's ad trackers.
So theoretically, you're like,
why isn't this locked down more?
It's almost like the people who make
browsers also sell ads, I don't know.
And so then now they default to
SameSite=Lax if you don't put anything
in there.
You can opt for SameSite=None, which it
might happen on this slide, we'll see.
But then it will only work on HTTPS.
So at least if they're
getting sent all around,
they have to be encrypted, right,
which did break a lot of ad trackers.
SameSite=Lax is now the default.
So it allows cookies to be sent
with top-level navigations and
if the request method is safe.
Now, pay attention to that
cuz safe is a relative term.
It means that the POST stuff won't work
if you have SameSite=Lax cookies, but
GETs will.
So that Twitter one and
the Netflix one, still on the table.
And there's some nuance to what
a top-level navigation is,
stuff along those lines.
But let's assume that a top-level
navigation is the user typing in a URL.
Anything where you see the URL
change in the nav bar,
that is a top-level navigation.
If it's a AJAX request or
a website or, honestly,
even in cases like an image or
something along those lines.
Then in that case, no, right?
So it's a pretty happy medium.
And then SameSite=Strict is only if it's
literally on the page for that site.
But that also includes,
if I was to send you a link to, let's say,
Facebook does not have it set to strict,
right?
Almost no social media site does for
the reasons I'm about to explain, but
your bank might.
SameSite=Strict is even if I send you
a link in iMessage or WhatsApp or Signal,
whatever, and you clicked on that link and
it wasn't from you navigating from one
page on the site to another, right?
Your cookie would not be sent and
you would get the login screen, right?
And so now someone wants to send you
something on Facebook Marketplace.
And even though you're logged in
cuz you look at your doomscrolling,
you get a login page again, right?
Not a great experience, and this is,
of all the things, the safest option.
And maybe if it is a bank site or the
company dashboard or something important,
yeah, I don't care if you have
to log in 7,000 times, right,
from a whole bunch of edge cases,
deal with it, right?
But if it is like, I would like
people to use my app and not hate me,
Lax is probably a decent option and
None is irresponsible.
But this now gets into the difference
between a site and an origin.
And this is why the web is weird, right?
Cuz cookies, I think, predate the same
origin policy by a year, right?
And so a site and an origin is different.
You're like,
aren't they just based on the URL?
Yes, so we kinda mentioned this before
when we're talking about SameSite cookies.
A site was previously,
you could have schemeless ones,
at which point it was only
the top level domain, com,
net, jp, what have you,
io, plus one more level.
And if those two things match,
then you're the same site,
which means all subdomains are fair game,
so on and so forth, right?
Recently, you could have a schemeless one,
where the HTTP versus HTTPS didn't matter,
which is a great way to trick someone
to go to HTTP version, right, and
send them a cookie unencrypted.
Nowadays, browsers did make
a breaking change, right?
And the schema is included regardless,
which is different than an origin,
which we said before was that
host protocol port tuple, right?
So the origin is all of these things.
The site is a subset,
which means if something is
a cross-origin request,
it is also not the same site,
but you could have something
that is a different origin.
Yeah, it's like things could be different
origins with the same site, but
if it's different sites,
then it's different origins, right?
And so that tiny nuance, cuz a lot of
times our heuristic is like, you all,
if I can't set local source in
the same place, right, then clearly,
my cookies must follow the same rules.
And it's kinda almost, most of the time,
except for when they don't.
And those are the areas in which they're
kind of just following the rules that
we've been told about how the Internet
should work can hurt us in some cases.
Like we said before, top-level
navigation is anytime the URL changes.
And so
those are fair game with the Lax settings,
safe operations as well.
>> Steve Kinney: Not AJAX request,
basically, the user had to do something.
And actually we'll see headers
later on where on the server side.
Nowadays, modern browsers,
there is part of the HTTP spec that gives
you a lot more information about
what is making the request, right?
So for instance, nowadays,
the browsers have all agreed on them.
This is not part of the tech, HTTP,
it's a specification of standardization.
There are things where you're like,
are they looking for
an image to the web worker?
You can get a little more nuanced and
you can write your own kind of
like filtering logic server
side that the browsers will,
all of them, between Firefox,
Safari, Chrome.
And, let's be honest, Edge and
Brave versus Chrome, and
on iOS, Chrome and Safari, it's hard.
But you can get these known headers that
we'll take a look at later that will give
you more information as well.
But generally speaking, the browser won't
even try to send them if it's an iframe or
an AJAX request if you don't
have those things properly set.